sorry buffs out there watching so when
Lloyd told us he'd be getting hands-on
with lightroom 3 for a review we asked
to become on to talk about the
difference between photo management
software and photo editors and why you
might want to be running something I
Lightroom or aperture if you manage a
big old photo collection Lloyd welcome
back to the show you can see you uh your
kids missing hopefully it wasn't stolen
youth right behind you you're out are
completely and since it seems to be the
word of the month for me I'm gonna say
an unhinged photography enthusiasts two
kids is it safe for me to unzip this in
a little bit of you don't give it over I
don't throw it over the side of this
otherwise you owe me a lot of money yeah
we're gonna be really gentle with this
because your camera setup is worth a lot
more than my truck how many how many
photos did he give stashed around in
various drives at home I have several
hundred gigabytes with raw photo several
hundred gigabytes right so not good I
have a two terabyte drive that's about
one-third foliage of photograph that's a
lot of photographs and that's assuming I
do keep all of your photographs or do
you throw any way I tend to keep them
yeah partly because it's just too much
work to filter through them so I just
get bigger drives every time they come
out so lightroom isn't Photoshop it's
like a compliment to photoshop yeah it's
it is what Lightroom is is its think of
it as a photo editor just for
photography it doesn't do text you can't
you know do all the stuff you would do
Photoshop the standard image and can't
draw lines on Holly it's just for
developing printing photographs think it
was a photo studio for your your pc is
instance what essentially what is an
aperture is the same way it's just a
photo management and photo specifically
specifically for photographers when you
look at lightroom do you think of it as
like something that makes it easier just
sort of delve through your photo
collection or is it primarily just doing
the best job possible at getting your
photos off the hard drive it into the
physical it's a little of both it's a
it's a what's called a workflow
application as well as an editor so it
manages your workflow it goes through
the steps of the library steps you know
where you bring in your stuff from your
camera sort it manage it put it into the
folders you want to put it into that
kind of stuff then it's got the
developed part which is just what it
sounds like where you make the changes
and tweaks to your pictures you can do
slideshows you know
with the printers it has a really robust
printing part 2 it's made to print on
those big format printers and stuff I
like that thought to a little bit more
about the develop panel what's going on
there well the develop panel is pretty
cool it's where you do a lot of your
main work and you can do the basic stuff
like remove red-eye correction you know
all that kind of stuff and you can do
things like adjust white balance a lot
of stuff the coolest part of it in terms
of lightroom 3 what they added two
things noise reduction noise reduction
they had in earlier versions lightroom
but it sucked turn your fat basically it
was a noise reduction so much as it was
sort of posterizing right like for
example yes right I would shoot and I
should a lot of high us a picture should
iso 3200 a lot because i'm shooting
indoor sports and stuff like that it's
your propensity for carrying nikon
cameras and glass around that's right
and so the lens the noise reduction now
works pretty well it allows you to
pretty significantly tweak in a number
of different ways for one thing you can
do things like not just let's say one of
the things about noise reduction you
talk about the posterization removes
detail right you decrease note so allows
you sort of tweak that has a detail
slider allows you kind of take that
compromise fits exactly doesn't everyone
love the film grain kind of effect well
there's a film grain and there's you
know the color noise which I really ugly
so so basically it is it so real-time
preview allows you to kind of store like
things on the fly yeah where you can
remember the weather thing about
Lightroom is unlike Photoshop it's a
non-destructive nice so as you're making
your changes that's saving it off in an
XML file not actually changing the image
that's a big deal because there's
nothing worse than finding out like
somebody's been messing around your
computer and like your favorite picture
of yadah a threatening your favorite
picture of yada with lots of effects by
somebody would vegetable tales not that
I'm bitter about an ex roommate who
shall be stopped but what's going on in
terms of they had lens correction is
that new also the headlines correction
before they've had a lot of manual
tweaks to the lens correction so you can
do a lot of trent what transforms now
like I when I was in Europe I shot a
bunch of pictures of doorways because
they have like cool doorways events
earlier works but you know I would at
least be shooting them on the fly so
they'd be kind of skewed one way and it
wouldn't be perfectly you know 90
degrees to the door you can actually go
in and start moving that around and make
it look like it's perpendicular so you
basically you don't have to be
particularly meticulous about your shot
you could you can fix it right post yes
just certain extent now if I
standing you know 30 degrees from the
door and I try you're gonna get
distortion when you try to do that much
correction but you need like a few
degrees of Correction and looks pretty
real that's pretty amazing actually when
you kids you don't expect you know okay
they're going to shift the pixels but it
actually looks fantastic it looks really
good is it shifting the shadows or
what's it actually do it does a lot that
does a lot of stuff I mean it's not just
doing one thing it's not just moving
thing around it's changing all it's
basically the messing around with the
whole perspective of the image that's
pretty crazy now you mentioned there are
two big changes that made it
particularly lightroom three
particularly interesting one was the
fact that the noise reduction actually
works was the was the the lens
correction the other one the lens
correction is one of the other ones it's
one of those I didn't play with a lot
actually and have them with the most fun
with anything of times there in terms of
like that it does in terms of managing
your library that makes it easier can
you like batch you know editor's yeah
you can scum it's it's a little better
at doing things like batch copying and
batch renaming and stuff like that the
other addition that I like is a lot of
the output stuff has been approved for
there's a lot of new templates for
printing so you can do all kinds really
wacky collages and stuff like that or
just if you just want to do a lot of
thumbnails and things like that to look
at pictures on a printer what it would
look like on a printer then you can do
that too what's Lightroom but in these
days I think the retails $300 we can
find a lot cheaper than online would you
consider and they're like I'm laughing
that because it's pretty funny I'm just
like you know just when you thought
you'd be able to get an amazing camera
for under 300 years now the people who
have photoshop on showing it lightroom
two and the short answer is only if you
need some of the special workflow stuff
and library management because a lot of
what's in what's called camera raw and
photoshop is what lightroom does really
just more sophisticated in front of user
interface as interesting thought in
terms of workflow management is that
something you find yourself using or is
that more like more I'm a professional
photographer that I shoot like a million
pictures a week I'm doing it more and
more and I'm finding it it previously i
would use something called bridge which
was an austin adobe app but this is a
lot more flexible and sophisticated in
the bridge for that kind of stuff what
kind of stuff you do supposedly in terms
of photo management oh it's just the
sort of managing the library stuff okay
so it's the fact that it automatically
date sorts and stuff like that and we
and names folders for you so you have to
worry about against that's actually
really convenient
Flickr Picasa would they be considered
sort of low-end versions of something
like this well Picasso of course is
family map flickers online Lightroom
actually integrates with Flickr so you
can actually publish to Flickr and stuff
like that automatically but flickers not
really about a manager I mean is sort of
but it picasa is probably a little
better because you have the integration
between application and and and picasa
web site but now with with lightroom you
can do that with flickr as well ladies
and gentlemen if you've been wondering
what these photo management tools are
all about help mr. Lloyd answered that
question for you will probably have you
back on in a few weeks what's the best
place to find the latest in Lloyd online
maximum pc pc world improbable insights
com and you can always find me on
twitter twitter.com slash Lloyd case
people follow him if you're not there's
good good stuff coming from this man